So now that traction is well and truly back, how about another Assetto Corsa Competitzione
track guide?
Yes, we've seen all of the comments coming through, asking us to complete the set.
So whilst we continue to get back on our feet, let's start with the easier of the two
remaining circuits.
The Red Bull Ring arrived on ACC in January 2024, as part of the purchasable GT2 DLC
pack.
It's a circuit that always produces superb racing, and whilst it might appear an easy
out to master, there is time hidden away in the curves that you might not quite be exploiting.
So here is our traction track guide, using the relatively new Ferrari 296 GT3.
As always, this lap was set in hot lap mode, in relatively cool conditions around 20 degrees.
Use it not as an exact recommendation for how hard to attack every single lap, but as
a way of showing you what might be possible in each corner, and to understand the sorts
of lines and techniques that may well help you extract more lap time than you're currently
managing.
This track is all about making the most of the available space, and it's perfectly legal
here to be this far left.
You just need to make sure that any small part of your car is touching the red and white
stripy curve, even if it's just one centimetre of one tire.
Just down to second gear, and don't turn in until just after the 50 board, easing off
the brake pedal as you do turn.
This is where the car can get very unstable, so just be careful not to be too aggressive
with your inputs, and make sure you are rolling off the brake.
Aim to put your right front wheel on the stripy apex curve, but avoid the yellow hump on
the inside.
Hitting this will be disastrous in most car and set up combos, so in a racing situation,
I'd recommend taking a little bit less risk than in a hot lap.
It's all about getting on the power early, and as you can see, I'm already squeezing
the throttle pedal as soon as I turn into the corner, and then I'm on full throttle by
the apex.
This will give you a good run all the way up the hill.
You can carry the speed out of turn one by using all of the extra road available, again,
as long as any of your right side rubber is touching the stripy curve, it's legal, so
you can in fact run your left wheels over the yellow sausage curve as it's fairly flat.
Take the shortest line up the hill, straight lining these subtle curves.
Turn two is a flat out kink to the left, that basically sets up the braking for turn three,
so use this to pull your car fully to the left.
I put my wheels over the white line so that I'm in the perfect spot for braking into turn
three.
Again, as long as your inside tires touch the stripy curve, it's legal, so break nice
and light in a straight line all the way over to the left of the road.
Here, I'm stamping on the brake just before the 100 metre line, that steep elevation
will dramatically increase stopping power.
This hairpin is a first gear corner, I wait until I've almost reached the end of the
curve, then I slowly roll off the brake pedal as I turn in, continuing to apply a bit of pressure
just to keep the nose down an optimal grip from the front tires.
Trail braking is an incredibly important technique around here, in fact, nearly every corner
requires it if you want to get a fast lap time.
Every time I say the term rolling off the brake, I essentially mean trail braking, and
if you want to understand what I mean by that exactly and how to do it, check out our
full guide to trail braking via the link on screen now.
It's a similar technique here to turn one, but at a slower speed, of course.
You want to be getting back on the power before you even reach the apex, and that apex
is on the stripy inside curve, but avoiding the yellow hump yet again.
Open out your steering and let the car run out wide on exit so that you can make use of
that early throttle application.
I actually think you can go wider on exit than I did on this lap if you wish, so feel
free to be even earlier than I was on the throttle and run all the way over the yellow
sausage curve to allow this.
As always, it's just about keeping in some small contact with that stripy curve in order
for the lap to remain legal.
I then straight line the next bit on my way towards turn four.
Even though it's also a tight right hander with a left-kink on entry, this one is downhill,
so it feels like a very different corner.
For the third time in three braking zones, use the 100m board as your line of reference,
slowing down just before it.
Positioning is the same as always, all the way over the curve on the left, and trail
braking here is more important than ever.
As you shift down to first, slowly roll off that brake pedal and start turning in before
you approach the end of the curve on the left.
This one with its off camber and downhill nature is very easy to get wrong and run wide,
so I'm turning in fairly early here just to ensure that I make it to the apex curve.
This is probably one of the corners where the aliens will find a couple of tents or so
by opening it out that little bit more.
You can see that I actually go to turn in ever so slightly early, so then make a small
correction and go again, causing me to just miss the apex.
If you can, get up on that curve with your front right.
I'm on the brake pedal all the way to the apex here, leaving it late before getting back
on the power and using all of the available space on exit, right up to the edge of the
gravel trap.
If your car's too loose on exit with the steering in the camber, try short shifting to
second gear for a more stable right.
Head back to the right to minimise the distance through turn 5 and prepare for 6.
It's business as usual with the positioning on entry, all the way over the curve, but
keeping one bit of contact.
At this time, it's a much faster and arguably trickier corner to master.
I start turning in and then braking just before the 50 metre line, being careful to use
slow and smooth inputs in order to avoid unsettling the car on turn in.
Big trail braking is required here, and as I shift down to second, early in the corner
and the engine braking pulls me in further, I'm able to apply that little bit of extra steering
lock to get me in over that stripy apex curve.
It's a long corner, so to maximise it, you really want to be carrying good speed in
and hitting that apex at just the right moment, not too late and not too early.
I'm squeezing the throttle back on just before I get to the apex, and then I'm fully
back on it when I reach it.
You do have to watch for oversteer here though.
The car can step out under full throttle when you cross this curve, so if you want those
fast lap times, you'll need to manage this, or play it a bit safer with either a safer
setup or less throttle in that moment.
Your momentum should carry you all the way out to the exit, and there's no need to worry
about track limits here, just do your best to avoid dipping a wheel over the blue tarmac
and into the gravel.
Stick all the way to the right for turn 7.
Again, I'm turning in for this corner just before I start braking, and just after the
curb ends.
A quick dab of the brakes, staying in third, and then rolling off the brake pedal as I
wind on the steering lock and get all the way over the inside curve, much earlier than
in turn 6.
Get on the power earlier than you think, as it's perfectly legal to run over the teeth
on the exit, so long as you're keeping contact with that stripy curve.
As well as allowing you to carry great exit speed, this line also allows you to shorten
turn 8, as you will already be as far to the inside as you possibly can be without getting
penalised.
That's with all of these tiny margins for track limits, you may want to give yourself
a bit more leeway in the race to avoid picking up penalties.
This just hopefully shows you what can be done and what is allowed to be done if you really
need to on a push lap.
Let the steering wind off as you run to the left on the exit of 8.
Stick to the white line, and get ready to, once again, haul yourself over the curb for
the braking zone into turn 9.
Just before the 50m mark, jump on the brakes and instantly begin heading for the apex, shifting
down to third.
Again, trail braking is key, it's all about balancing your steering input with your
brake pressure to maintain the perfect level of grip needed to make the corner.
You're aiming for your front right wheel to be all the way onto the stripy curve, in fact
on this occasion, get it even further onto the blue netted section.
Get back on the throttle as you reach your apex, and if everything's gone perfectly, you
should naturally run out beyond the stripy curve, and even the teeth.
So long as, you guessed it, you keep contact with the stripy curve, with your inside tires.
I was as close as you can possibly get to the limit on this particular lap.
If there was an equivalent to go line technology or hawk eye, the crowds would probably be
gasping.
Unlike previous examples where you kept the car all the way over here, on this occasion,
you're going to need to pull the car back to the right immediately, to avoid bottoming
out as you break for turn 10.
So long as you're right on the far left edge of the teeth, you should be okay.
Get on the brakes hard, just as the additional Austrian flag runoff area ends on the left.
Stay in third, and quickly make your way to the inside, easing off the brake as you aim
for the stripy inside curve.
As always, avoid the yellow hump on the inside, as this is likely to throw your car out white,
and get back on the power as soon as you feel the car drop over the apex curve.
This is such a satisfying corner when you get it right, it feels like the curve hooks
you in and pulls you around.
It just makes it fast and rewarding, allowing you to carry great speed all the way out over
the curve on the outside as you power towards the finish.
Track limits here are the same as everywhere else, keep contact with the stripy curve and
you should be fine.
A slight difference here however, is that if you are as wide as you're allowed to be,
you might end up bottoming out a bit and losing both speed and stability, so I really wouldn't
recommend allowing your left front to drift over the high left edge of those teeth.
But that's it, you've completed a fast lap of the red bull ring, so now let's see how
it all flows together.
So there's your lap, a circuit of fine margins, you really do need to push
the boundaries here to find that last second, but as I keep banging on about, if you at
least know where those limits are on a hot lap, you'll be able to better judge just
how much liberty can be taken during a regular race.
I can guarantee you that by simply getting closer to the edges than you were previously,
you will gain free lap time, regardless of nailing the other bits.
So what about lap time targets then?
This lap was a 127.58, but the pros would be looking at high 26s in these sorts of hot
lapping conditions with even more aggressive setups and mid-lap TC and bias adjustments.
If you're getting up to speed as an am, then anything below a 134 is a decent lap time,
whereas those of you looking to compete online should be looking around about the 1 minute
30 mark.
As always, these times are simply set as targets to try and motivate you, please don't
be disheartened if you aren't there yet.
Track conditions, setup, fuel levels all play a huge role in affecting lap time, and I certainly
wouldn't be looking to drop below 28s regularly if I was in a normal session.
The main thing is that you were able to learn something from this video to help you go
faster around the circuit.
Right then, anyone for a 10 second summary?
Eat your turn one from a wide-line wide-ex at wide-line, 3 wide-ex at wide-lines, 4 use
the curb unlike me wide-ex at wide-line as 6 trail brake watch rovers to your wide-line
to 7 brush your teeth shock at 8 full eating sign wide-ex at brush your teeth, hang on
through 10 full power wide-ex at brush your teeth again.
Thanks as always for watching, and don't forget to grab your setups from the description.
If you found this track guide or any other that we've done useful, then we would really
appreciate it if you could leave us a like as it does help us reach wider audiences.
Subscribe to the Traction channel if you haven't already for videos like this in future,
and be sure to check out our ACC playlist as we have a near full set of track guides and
various other ACC tips and tricks from over the years.
Until next time, thanks again, and I hope you all have a great day.
