Hey guys, it's Yogi here and welcome to the channel for episode 24 of the in-depth
track guide series for a setter course of competition.
In today's episode we'll be taking a look at the Red Bull Ring which came with the GT2
DLC pack.
We'll be breaking down each individual corner giving you all the knowledge and tips that
you need in order to help improve your lap times.
If you want to see the other in-depth track guide episodes make sure to check out the
card at the top of the screen there and make sure you subscribe to the channel so you
don't miss out on future episodes.
The Red Bull Ring could be found in the stereo and mountains of Austria and has a circuit
length of 2.68 miles which equates to 4.32 km.
The track features 10 corners with a medium to hide down for setup and soft to medium suspension.
Your key overtaking spots are going to be turns 1, turn 3, turn 4 and turn 6.
The pit entry can be found after the second to last turn on the right hand side of the
circuit.
You will need to break slightly on the pit entry slip road in order to make that right
handle on the inside of the pit entry barrier and then again slow down just before you get
to the gantry in order to make it to the pit speed limiter line at the appropriate speed.
The pit exit line is just after the traffic lights at the end of the pit lane disengaged
limiter here accelerate out the pit lane and once again you'll need to slow for the right
handle on the inside of turn 1 here in order to avoid clipping the wall and damaging the
car.
Make sure you stay to the right of the pit exit merge line as you then accelerate up
towards turns 2 and 3.
The braking zone for turn 1 starts at the 100 meter board however some cars may allow
you to brake marginally later than this.
You want to be straddling this curb on the left hand side as much as you possibly can to
open up that first turn getting hard on the brake shifting the car down into second gear.
Our apex is going to be mid way through the corner brushing our inside right hand
wheels on the red and white curbing that is here at the apex.
It's absolutely crucial that you avoid the yellow sausage curb there on the inside because
it will bounce unsaturated the car and completely ruin your exit.
Get the car straight end up and get hard on the power as soon as you possibly can because
getting a good run off of this corner is going to be absolutely crucial leading onto
the longest straight on the circuit.
Providing you keep two wheels on the red and white serrated curbing you should remain
within track limits so don't be afraid to go over and straddle that yellow sausage
curbing that is there on the outside in the dry conditions it's not going to unsettle
the car too much and it's going to allow you to carry a higher apex speed in the wet
conditions however you want to be staying off of this curbing in order to avoid losing
any traction.
Turn 2 is barely a corner that we even need to worry about so we're now into the braking
zone for turn 3.
Despite the higher speeds we can still brake at 100m board and make the corner due to
the uphill slope on the approach to the corner.
Try and straddle as much of the curve as you possibly can on the left hand side of the
track here in order to open up the turn, shift the car all the way down into first gear
and aim to hook up a mid to late apex.
You don't necessarily need to touch the curve here on the inside you just want to be getting
as close to it as possible and focus on straightening up the car for the exit.
You once again want to be avoiding that yellow such as curb that's there on the inside
of the corner and you want to be picking up the throttle just before you actually reach
this apex point.
Focus on trying to keep the car straight as possible and managing that traction don't
be afraid to use the curbing here on the outside once again making sure that you keep at
least two wheels on the red and white curbing in order to stay within track limits.
As this is a crucial traction zone in the wet conditions you'll be wanting to avoid
the curbing entirely.
Full turn 4 will once again be braking at the 100m board and will be getting as far
left as we possibly can, strolling that red and white curbing that's there on the outside
on the approach to the corner.
Turn in reasonably late with a nice flowing arc through the turn and hook up a mid to late
apex.
You're going to be in either first or second gear depending on your car's gear ratios.
So slight bit of camber here, the curbing is flat here on the inside so make sure to
get your right hand wheels up over that curbing in the dry conditions however do take caution
with it in the wet as you start to pick up throttle and continue through the turn it may
cause oversteer whilst up on that curb.
Before the exit we again want to be managing the power and getting a good translation
of traction as we drive off of the corner, we've got just beyond the red and white serrated
curbing a blue painted tarmac strip with gravel beyond it.
Use the curb and that bit of tarmac in the dry conditions of see avoid dipping your wheels
into the gravel as that will hurt your momentum off the turn and then in the wet conditions
you want to stay clear of both in order to give yourself the best drive off the turn you
possibly can.
Turn 5 is effectively a continuation of the turn 4 exit so we're now into the braking
zone of turn 6.
Place the car as far right as you possibly can over the red and white serrated curbing
on the right hand side of the track here break at a 50 meter board and immediately start
going in the car in towards the inside of the corner.
We're going to be looking to apex midway through the turn in second or third gear depending
on the car's gear ratios, it's a smooth flat curb with some grass creep there on the
inside feel free to use this in the dry conditions and progressively pick up the throttle do take
caution with it in the wet as it may cause some oversteer.
From the outside of the corner we've got a serrated curve with blue painted tarmac and
gravel beyond it make sure to use this available runoff towards you providing you don't dip
the wheels into the gravel track limits is not going to be an issue you're going to be
running into the gravel and hurting your momentum before you breach those but as always
stay clear of the painted tarmac and that red and white curbing on the exit in those
wetter rainy conditions.
Keep the car as far right over the curbing and that painted tarmac strip as you possibly
can and then just as the gravel ends on the approach to turn 7 that is when we're going
to get onto the brakes is going to be a short gentle squeeze on those brakes as we once
again guide the car into a mid corner apex will be in second or third gear depending on
the car's gear ratios curbing is exactly the same as it was on the previous corner smooth
flat with some grass creep there on the inside get your left wheels up on this as much as
you can in the dry conditions however do take caution with it in the wet.
Feed the power in fairly aggressively and let the car go way out onto the curbing on the
exit of turn 7 here which immediately feeds into turn 8 the two are pretty much connected
together.
Keep the left wheels of the car on that red and white serrated curbing in order to avoid
reaching track limits and keep the right hand of wheels out of the gravel.
In the wet and rainy conditions you'll be wanted to stay clear of this curbing entirely.
Coming into turn 9 the penultimate corner we once again want to be putting our car
as far over the left hand side as we possibly can over that red and white curbing break
out the 50 meter board and immediately start turning the car in shifting the car down
into third gear and hooking up a mid corner apex.
Get the inside tyres up over the curbing and on the grass creep on the inside do this
in both the dry and wet conditions.
Try to be confident on the exit get punchy with the throttle and let the car run out
wide making use of that runoff area.
Make sure that you keep at least two wheels on the red and white serrated curbing to stay
within track limits and in the wetter and more slippery conditions be cautious running
out wide over this curbing here probably avoid it entirely.
From the approach to the final corner you'll still be on that exit curbing bring the
car back so the left hand wheels are on it not the entire car because once you get to
the breaking point at the end of the red and white painted tarmac runoff area the floor
and spitter of the car will bottom out on that serrated curbing so make sure it's just
your wheels that are on it drop the car down into second gear and make sure you apex
make corner.
Unlike previous corners at this circuit you should be able to hammer that inside yellow
sausage curve and you should be able to do this in both the dry and wet conditions.
Hard on the throttle as soon as we hit out apex let the car run out wide and make use
of the available runoff to you.
Keep at least two wheels on the red and white serrated curbing to stay within track limits
and for the wetter conditions you'll want to stay away from the curbing entirely.
With the breakdown of each corner complete let's go ahead and piece it all together with
a demonstration lap.
With this go complete I just want to highlight down in description below are my track titan
affiliate links.
If you do pick up track titan make sure to compare yourself against my lap that is here
in the guide just search for yorki065 in the community tab of the reference lap time.
I hope both that and this guide have been useful to you leave a like if so let us know
down in the comments below how much this guide has helped you improve your lap times consider
subscribing to the channel and thank you very much for watching until the next time have
fun stay safe take care.
